==========================
|Percona| |XtraBackup| 1.6
==========================

Released on April 12, 2011 (Downloads are available `here <http://www.percona.com/downloads/XtraBackup/XtraBackup-1.6/>`_ and from the `Percona Software Repositories <http://www.percona.com/docs/wiki/repositories:start>`_.)

Options Added
-------------

* Added option :option:`--extra-lsndir` to |innobackupex|. When specified for the backup phase, the option is passed to |xtrabackup|, and :term:`LSN` information is stored with the file in the specified directory. This is needed so that :term:`LSN` information is preserved during stream backup. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* Added option :option:`--incremental-lsn` to |innobackupex|. If specified, this option is passed directly to the |xtrabackup| binary and :program:`--incremental-basedir` is ignored. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* Added option :option:`--incremental-dir` to |innobackupex|. This option is passed directly to the |xtrabackup| binary. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* Added option :option:`--safe-slave-backup` to |innobackupex|. (Daniel Nichter)

* Added option :option:`--safe-slave-backup-timeout` to |innobackupex|. (Daniel Nichter)

Other Changes
-------------

* Eliminated some compiler warnings. (Stewart Smith)

* Ported |XtraBackup| to |MySQL| 5.1.55, |MySQL| 5.5.9, |Percona Server| 5.1.55-12.6, and |Percona Server| 5.5.9-20.1 code bases. The :command:`xtrabackup_55` binary is now based on |Percona Server| 5.5, rather than |MySQL| 5.5. Support for building against |InnoDB| plugin in |MySQL| 5.1 has been removed. (Alexey Kopytov)

* Updates were made to the built-in |innobackupex| usage docs. (Baron Schwartz, Fred Linhoss)

* Added a manual page for |XtraBackup|. (Aleksandr Kuzminsky)

* Disabled auto-creating :file:`ib_logfile*` when |innobackupex| is called with :option:`--redo-only` or with :option:`--incremental-dir`. If necessary :file:`ib_logfile*` can be created later with :command:`xtrabackup --prepare` call. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* Fixed |xtrabackup| exit code to improve portability: ``EXIT_SUCCESS`` on success and ``EXIT_FAILURE`` on a failure. (Aleksandr Kuzminsky)

* For portability, the |XtraBackup| build script now tries to link with ``libaio`` only on Linux. (Aleksandr Kuzminsky)

Bugs Fixed
----------

* `Bug #368945 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/368945>`_ - When option :option:`--prepare` was specified, an error message was requesting that ``datadir`` be set, even though it's not a required option. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* `Bug #420181 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/420181>`_ - The |innobackupex| script now backs up :term:`.CSV` tables. (Valentine Gostev)

* `Bug #597384 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/597384>`_ - The ``innobackup`` :option:`--include` option now handles non-|InnoDB| tables. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* `Bug #606981 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/606981>`_ - Streaming |InnoDB| files with |tar4ibd| could lead to filesystem hangs when |InnoDB| was configured to access data files with the ``O_DIRECT`` flag. The reason was that |tar4ibd| did not have support for ``O_DIRECT`` and simultaneous ``O_DIRECT`` + non-``O_DIRECT`` access to a file on Linux is disallowed. Fixed |innobackupex| and |tar4ibd| to use ``O_DIRECT`` on input |InnoDB| files if the value of ``innodb_flush_method`` is ``O_DIRECT`` in the |InnoDB| configuration. (Alexey Kopytov)

* `Bug #646647 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/646647>`_ - Removed the bogus warning about invalid data in the Perl version string in |innobackupex|. (Baron Schwartz)

* `Bug #672384 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/672384>`_ - When no log files can be found in the backup directory while executing :option:`xtrabackup --stats`, a descriptive error message is printed instead of crashing. (Alexey Kopytov)

* `Bug #688211 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/688211>`_ - Using the :option:`--password` option with |innobackupex| to specify MySQL passwords containing special shell characters (such as "&") did not work, even when the option value was properly quoted.

* `Bug #688417 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/688417>`_ - It's now possible to do incremental backups for compressed |InnoDB| tables.

* `Bug #701767 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/701767>`_ - The script ``innobackupex-1.5.1`` was renamed to |innobackupex|. Symbolic link ``innobackupex-1.5.1`` was created for backupward compatibility. (Vadim Tkachenko)

* `Bug #703070 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/703070>`_ - ``xtrabackup_55`` crashed with an assertion failure on non-Linux platforms. (Alexey Kopytov)

* `Bug #703077 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/703077>`_ - Building |xtrabackup| could fail on some platforms due to an incorrect argument to ``CMake``. Fixed by changing the ``-DWITH_ZLIB`` argument to lowercase, because that's what the ``CMake`` scripts actually expect. (Alexey Kopytov)

* `Bug #713799 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/713799>`_ - Dropping a table during a backup process could result in assertion failure in |xtrabackup|. Now it continues with a warning message about the dropped table. (Alexey Kopytov)

* `Bug #717784 <https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/717784>`_ - Performing parallel backups with the :option:`--parallel` option could cause |xtrabackup| to fail with the "cannot mkdir" error. (Alexey Kopytov)
