============================
|Percona| |XtraBackup| 1.6.7
============================

Percona is glad to announce the release of Percona XtraBackup 1.6.7 on December 20th, 2012 (Downloads are available `here <http://www.percona.com/downloads/XtraBackup/XtraBackup-1.6.7/>`_ and from the :doc:`Percona Software Repositories </installation>`).

This release is purely composed of bug fixes and is the current stable release of |Percona| |Xtrabackup|.

Bugs Fixed
----------

  ``xtrabackup_binary`` was not included in tar archive when streaming, instead it was written to the current directory. This could lead to a wrong xtrabackup binary being used when preparing backups created with the :option:`--stream` or :option:`--remote-host` options. Bugs fixed :bug:`723318` and :bug:`787988` (*Stewart Smith*).

  ``FLUSH TABLES WITH READ LOCK`` was not used when creating incremental backups, which could lead to inconsistent backups when updates to non-InnoDB tables or DDL statements on any tables occurred during the backup process. Bug fixed :bug:`771981` (*Alexey Kopytov*).

  Option :option:`--safe-slave-backup` was resulting in incorrect binlog info, because in some cases innobackupex confused the response from SHOW SLAVE STATUS with the one from SHOW MASTER STATUS. Bug fixed :bug:`977101` (*Alexey Kopytov*). 

  `innodb_data_file_path` was not written to :file:`backup-my.cnf`, this was a regression introduced in |XtraBackup| 1.6.5. Bug fixed :bug:`983685` (*Sergei Glushchenko*).

  Fixed spurious test suite failures with grep 2.10. Bug fixed :bug:`996483` (*Alexey Kopytov*).

  When |innobackupex| was running with :option:`--apply-log`, it was reading configuration from the server configuration file instead of :file:`backup-my.cnf` in backup directory. Bug fixed :bug:`996493` (*Sergei Glushchenko*).

  |innobackupex| could copy files to a wrong directory when merging an incremental backup to a full one. Bug fixed :bug:`1002688` (*Alexey Kopytov*).

  |XtraBackup| binary was leaking file descriptors on :option:`--backup`. This was fixed by reusing the existing file descriptor so no leak occurs. Bug fixed :bug:`713267` (*Alexey Kopytov*).

Other bugs fixed: bug :bug:`1021954` (*Hrvoje Matijakovic*).

